---
layout: page
title: "BITS sample"
footer: true
---
~ ~ ~
<p><em>Are there agents among us?</em></p>

<p><em>Reports from an anonymous source have alerted us to a program Codename ANGEL designed to place specially trained and engineered individuals within the populace in order to monitor them. Our inside source was only able to read the first page of the dossier regarding the secret project and reports the ANGELS have been placed in major cities with a high concentration of foreigners. Ten years after the Second Civil War, and still concern exists over domestic terrorism.</em></p>

<p><em>Further implied in the report is the individuals are classified as BM, colloquially known as Augies with possible implementation of NN hardware. With only four companies publicly known to have the resources and scientists able to provide augmentation and two with public government contracts, it is not too difficult to narrow down those who are innovating the surveillance industry.</em></p>

<p><em>Currently our team is working to find ways to identify the Augies in question.</em></p>

<p><em>Keep your eyes peeled and follow your gut.</em></p>
~ ~ ~
<p>In the time it takes me to pretend to take in the information, 3,452 people have walked within 100 meters of the cafe I am sitting. Fifteen of them are carrying weapons. Eight of them are firearms. None are illegal. Fifty seven are sick with contagious diseases. One has cancer.</p>
<p>I use the word pretend because I've been programmed to analyze the ratio of words to images on the page, measuring the subject matter against my interests, the difficulty of the prose. This results in a number, a span of time that I look at the page, even though all the information has already been taken in, stored, cataloged and transmitted .001 seconds after I laid my eyes upon it.</p>
<p>Of the 4,157 people who have now passed by, 74.37 percent are content. 40.3 percent are in a hurry. .002 percent are aggravated. 12.32 percent are worried.</p>

<p>The waitress sets my order down. Chickory coffee, black. A beignet, dusted with powdered sweetener. It's their Thursday special. I smell the egg rich dough, the deep smell of the chicory coffee. The woman sitting across from me, the art curator is wearing a perfume that smells of carnation, leather and synthetic musk. I smell bread being toasted, the smell of electricity running the wheels in the cars. Plastic. Metal. Concrete. Skin, sweat, garbage.</p>
<p>While the sound of the streets whiz through my ears, the sounds are cataloged. Every tire that spins, every hum of every engine. The coo of the 187 pigeons on the vicinity of the cafe. The espresso machine foaming milk, forming bubbles, pushing air past fat and protein and water. Man-made leather on man-made concrete, the clip of high-heeled shoes. People bustling through the city, ignoring each other as they head to their work, their play. That sound.</p>
<p>I tap back to the front page of the media screen, scanning the headlines. Scrolling through. It looks like I am just scrolling through. I reach out for my beignet and take a bite of it, stopping at an article about Senator Paulson. He's wearing his typical grey striped suit, blue tie, pale grey shirt. Hair impeccably combed to the left. His face has a touch of concern on it. The article is about the expansion of irrigation in Western Ethiopia, and his concern about the strengthening of Eastern Africa and it's proximity to former enemies. Senator Paulson.</p>
<p>Biomechanical Interactive Transhuman Sentinel. I take in information. I send it to Server_in_the_Sky.007. I can access information if I need it but mostly I walk around, visit the same haunts. Victory Park, Union Station and this coffee shop, Libertad Cafe and Art Space on Liberty Square. Open Source Elementary is expanding their VERT. It's run by Abiders. Many of them get lunch over here while the children play in the public square, the din of installing the warmers and fog pipes rattling over the din. It's morning so the children are still inside, writing, typing, learning. I reported a man who visited every day before lunch time and watched the children play, every day for four days, a bag in his lap. I reported him to the Server and he hasn't shown up the last few days.</p>

<p>I finish my beignet and take a sip of my coffee. In the time that has passed, 238 more people have passed by. The number of people who have walked by the cafe is within parameters. I scroll through a few more articles. Two Abiders start to cross the square, crates in hand. Vegetables peek over the top, their payment for lunch for faculty members today. I know them both. Madi and Ty, a math teacher and computer teacher, ages 28 and 30 respectively. Married, no children on account of an injury sustained by Ty in the Block Riots of '37. They're in the process of adopting a little girl, an orphan. Their home on 3rd Avenue is under scrutiny and their known status as Abiders and rioters is slowing down the application process.</p>
<p>Today they are smiling as they walk across the square, their hands full of vegetables but connected. Connected in their gaze. Madi looks to Ty, her full mouth smiling, her glasses lifting on her nose as a breeze blows through her dark brown hair. Ty asks her if she's got the box. Always concerned about her even though he's seen her shoot guns, guns which are now illegal, at cops in riot gear, at Zealots in white Kevlar. That's one of the things I observe about them. I always see it.</p>
<p>They exchange their crates for a single crate. It's filled with sandwiches of various kinds wrapped in white paper, piled neatly, three across, four up. A tub of soup and a tub of salad. The soup is vegetable, it's always vegetable. Beet salad, earthy and red. Ty hefts the crate of food while Madi swipes her clip across the scanner to pay for the remaining balance and the barista waves goodbye, smiling without showing her teeth.</p>
<p>A normal transaction, like all the others which have taken place this morning. I drain my cup and put the screen in sleep mode before I stand from the table, brushing off a few stray crumbs from my clothing. I lick my thumb, a bit of sweetener there.</p>
<p>I walk by 2,512 people on my way to the subway. One individual has an unregistered weapon on him. He is walking south on 3rd Avenue and is visibly agitated though nobody stops him. People move out of his path, parting like the ocean while he makes his way down the street. His name is Garn Ferilson and when I turn to look a police officer, all in black, is walking towards him.</p>

<p>I duck down the subway stairs, counting the 17 steps to the landing. It smells like old piss. It's probably smelled like piss for over 53 years. I smile and make my way with the others towards the turnstiles, my train expected to arrive in 3 minutes, 13 seconds.</p>